Hello everyone in this lesson we will learn about preventing spam comments at the heart and soul of
this lesson is a plug in named a Kismet the kismet plug in will automatically block 99 percent of incoming
spam comments without further ado.
Let me show you how to get started using a kismet.
OK so here we are on the home page of my web site and the first thing I want to do is jump over to the
Wordpress admin dashboard so I will click on this top left link and now in the left hand side bar look
for plug ins.
It's a little more than halfway down.
Go ahead and click on plug ins.
All right now this screen shows us a list of all currently installed plugins.
There is a difference however between an installed plug in and an active plug in.
So for example remember this responsive light box plug in that we added several lessons ago.
It's using a light blue background and the light blue background signifies that it's activated.
These other three plug ins are plug ins that I personally did not download or install right so I didn't
search for a Kismet Hello Dolly or jet pack by WordPress.
WordPress comes with a few plug ins.
Out of the box but it doesn't activate them for you.
Back to the task at hand though we want to begin using a Kismet So 99 percent of the time you will see
a Kismet in your list of installed plugins.
But if for some reason you do not see a Kismet here.
Perhaps your web hosting company removed it for some reason.
All you need to do is click on this add new button
and then from this screen use this top right search field and search for a kismet.
So here it is it's the first results and we see that it has over a million active installs.
So if for some reason you did not see a Kismet in your initial install plug in screen you can install
it from the screen after you search for it.
But let me jump back to my initial plug in screen.
So from this list of installed plugins on a Kismet just click the Activate button
OK now that activated the kismet plug in within our WordPress website.
But next we need to activate or create an account with the kismet right so just like you would create
an account if you wanted to use Facebook or Twitter or G-mail.
We need to go and create an account with a kismet.
So as soon as we activated the plug in we saw this green and blue bar towards the top.
Go ahead and click the blue activate your Kismet the count button and then from this screen click this
blue get your API key button.
That will open a new tab in my web browser and take me to a Kismet dot com slash Wordpress and from
this website.
Go ahead and click the large blue button that reads get in a Kismet API key
and on this screen you're just creating a new account.
So enter your email address and then invent a username for yourself and then type in a password.
Once you fill out that form and click the submit button you'll be taken to this screen.
In our example we are going to use the basic or free plan to go ahead and click this get basic button.
Now towards the top right here we can see that the Kismet is asking us if we want to give it a donation.
So by default it looks like it's set to a $36 per year donation but I can just drag this down to the
full left edge and say zero dollars a year.
So I do not want to make a donation to the kismet software.
Once I do that then the form on the left hand side no longer asks me for a credit card makes sense because
now I'm not paying any money.
So go ahead and enter your first and last name and then click the blue continue button.
All right.
Now this is the screen we've been waiting for.
Here we see that a Kismet is giving us our very own API key.
Now I've blacked out my API keys and you can't see it just for security reasons.
But when you log into the kismet Web site it will give you your own uniquely generated string of characters
here.
So go ahead and select those characters and copy them to your clipboard.
And now we can jump back to the other tab and our web browser that has our WordPress admin dashboard
open.
And if you can't remember how we got to this screen that's OK.
Let me show you one more time.
So in the left hand admin side bar you can always just click on plugins and then under a Kismat you
can click Settings right here or you can click this large activate your Kismet account button.
So either will do the trick.
And now down here where it says manually enter an API key as you might have guessed.
Now you can just paste in from your clipboard that API key.
So once you paste it in.
Then click the used this key button and congratulations your web site is now protected by a kismat.
I'm not sure if it's really necessary but just to play it safe why don't we click this save changes
button.
And that's it.
We are good to go now before we bring this lesson to a close.
I want to answer a question you might have because you might be wondering how does a Kismet work.
How does it block spam comments.
How does it know which comment is spam.
Now I don't claim to 100 percent understand how a Kismet works but a big part of any anti-spam tool
goes a little something like this.
So for example in the sidebar if we click on comments remember this screen from an earlier lesson here
we can moderate the comments.
So that means we can approve or unapproved.
And we can mark comment as spam or send it to the trash.
Well the idea is that if millions of people are using a Kismet on their WordPress Web site and if you
see a spam comment and market as spam the kismet software watches for patterns and it notices which
type of comments are marked as spam and it's got a huge sample to work from right.
There's millions of people using the equipment software.
So over time it builds up this huge database of what spam looks like of what spam smells like.
So the idea is that the hard work has already been done for you.
Millions of people have already marked comments as spam.
So ninety nine point nine percent of spam will not even make it to this comment screen on your Web site.
The vast majority of spam will just end up in this spam filter here.
So if I click on spam you can see it says no comments found but over time a Kismet will do its job and
just like your email how most of your email that spam goes into the spam folder.
Well all of your spam comments will go into this sort of spam folder.
Now nothing's perfect so Kismet will not catch 100 percent of spam so from time to time you might see
a spam comment show up in this main comments area and you can help the world by just marking it as spam
and that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson we will learn about a plugin
named discuss discuss we'll let the visitors of our Web site leave comments without having to type in
their name in email.
Right so discuss will let your visitors leave comments via their Twitter account or via their Facebook
account.
It's a really neat plug and you've probably seen it used on other WordPress web sites without even realizing
what you are seeing.
Discuss is entirely optional.
You do not need to use it but I think it might be a lot of fun to take it for a test drive.
Let's keep rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.